README.md, before:

# EmbodiedRL

EmbodiedRL is a library designed for research in embodied reinforcement learning with
a focus on modularity, flexibility, and low cognitive overhead. This work builds upon
the [pytorch-a2c-ppo-acktr](https://github.com/ikostrikov/pytorch-a2c-ppo-acktr-gail) 
library of Ilya Kostrikov and uses some data structures from FAIR's 
[habitat-api](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-api).

Currently, two RL algorithms are implemented

* Advantage Actor Critic (A2C) - synchronized [A3C](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.01783v1.pdf)
* [Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.06347.pdf)

## Requirements

This library has been tested only in Python 3.6. In order to install requirements, we
 recommend creating a new virtual environment and then running the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Alternatively (*recommended*), if you use [pipenv](https://pipenv.kennethreitz.org/en/latest/):

```bash
pipenv install --skip-lock --dev
```

## Contributions

### Updating, adding, or removing packages

We recommend using [pipenv](https://pipenv.kennethreitz.org/en/latest/) to keep track
of dependencies, ensure reproducibility, and keep things synchronized. If you have
modified any installed packages please run:
```bash
pipenv run pipenv-setup sync --pipfile # Syncs packages to setup.py
pipenv run pip freeze > requirements.txt # Syncs packages to requirements.py
``` 
before submitting a pull request.

Commit message:

Adding mypy to precommit hooks and fixing code inspection warnings.

README.md, after:

# EmbodiedRL

EmbodiedRL is a library designed for research in embodied reinforcement learning with
a focus on modularity, flexibility, and low cognitive overhead. This work builds upon
the [pytorch-a2c-ppo-acktr](https://github.com/ikostrikov/pytorch-a2c-ppo-acktr-gail) 
library of Ilya Kostrikov and uses some data structures from FAIR's 
[habitat-api](https://github.com/facebookresearch/habitat-api).

Currently, two RL algorithms are implemented

* Advantage Actor Critic (A2C) - synchronized [A3C](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.01783v1.pdf)
* [Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.06347.pdf)

## Requirements

This library has been tested only in Python 3.6. In order to install requirements, we
 recommend creating a new virtual environment and then running the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Alternatively (*recommended*), if you use [pipenv](https://pipenv.kennethreitz.org/en/latest/):

```bash
pipenv install --skip-lock --dev
```

## Contributions

### Setting up pre-commit hooks

Assuming you have installed all of the above requirements, you can install our recommended
pre-commit hooks by running (from this project's root directory)
```
pre-commit install
```
After running the above, each time you run `git commit ...` a set of pre-commit checks will
be run. These include basic type-checking and auto-formatting (via
[black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)). If your code passes these checks, the 
commit will succeed, otherwise it will provide error messages directing you to problem
areas. 

### Updating, adding, or removing packages

We recommend using [pipenv](https://pipenv.kennethreitz.org/en/latest/) to keep track
of dependencies, ensure reproducibility, and keep things synchronized. If you have
modified any installed packages please run:
```bash
pipenv run pipenv-setup sync --pipfile # Syncs packages to setup.py
pipenv run pip freeze > requirements.txt # Syncs packages to requirements.py
``` 
before submitting a pull request.
