docs/overview/experiment.md, before:

# Experiment specification

Let's look at an example experiment configuration for an object navigation example with an actor-critic agent observing
RGB images from the environment, target object classes from the task and expert actions.

The interface to be implemented by the experiment specification is defined in
[rl_base.experiment_config](/api/rl_base/experiment_config#experimentconfig). The first method to implement is `tag`,
which provides a string identifying the experiment:
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    @classmethod
    def tag(cls):
        return "ObjectNavThorPPO"
    ...
```

## Model creation

Next, `create_model` will be used to instantiate
[object navigation baseline actor-critic models](/api/models/object_nav_models#ObjectNavBaselineActorCritic):
```python
class ObjectNavThorExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    SCREEN_SIZE = 224
    ...
    OBJECT_TYPES = sorted(["Tomato"])
    ...

    SENSORS = [
        rl_ai2thor.ai2thor_sensors.RGBSensorThor(
            {
                "height": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "width": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "use_resnet_normalization": True,
            }
        ),
        rl_ai2thor.ai2thor_sensors.GoalObjectTypeThorSensor(
            {"object_types": OBJECT_TYPES}
        ),
    ]
    
    @classmethod
    def create_model(cls, **kwargs) -> torch.nn.Module:
        return models.object_nav_models.ObjectNavBaselineActorCritic(
            action_space=gym.spaces.Discrete(
                len(rl_ai2thor.object_nav.tasks.ObjectNavTask.action_names())
            ),
            observation_space=rl_base.sensor.SensorSuite(
                cls.SENSORS
            ).observation_spaces,
            goal_sensor_uuid="goal_object_type_ind",
            hidden_size=512,
            object_type_embedding_dim=8,
        )
    ...
```

## Training pipeline

In this section we use [Builder](/api/utils/experiment_utils#builder) objects, which allow us to defer the instantiation
of objects of the class passed as their first argument while allowing passing additional keyword arguments to their
initializers. 

We can implement a training pipeline which trains with a single stage using PPO:
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    @classmethod
    def training_pipeline(cls, **kwargs):
        ppo_steps = int(1e6)
        lr = 2.5e-4
        num_mini_batch = 1
        update_repeats = 3
        num_steps = 128
        log_interval = cls.MAX_STEPS * 10  # Log every 10 max length tasks
        save_interval = 10000  # Save every 10000 steps (approximately)
        gamma = 0.99
        use_gae = True
        gae_lambda = 1.0
        max_grad_norm = 0.5
        return utils.experiment_utils.TrainingPipeline(
            named_losses={
                "imitation_loss": utils.experiment_utils.Builder(
                    onpolicy_sync.losses.imitation.Imitation,
                ),
            },
            optimizer=utils.experiment_utils.Builder(
                torch.optim.Adam, dict(lr=lr)
            ),
            save_interval=save_interval,
            log_interval=log_interval,
            num_mini_batch=num_mini_batch,
            update_repeats=update_repeats,
            num_steps=num_steps,
            gamma=gamma,
            use_gae=use_gae,
            gae_lambda=gae_lambda,
            max_grad_norm=max_grad_norm,
            pipeline_stages=[
                utils.experiment_utils.PipelineStage(
                    loss_names=["ppo_loss"],
                    end_criterion=ppo_steps
                ),
            ],
        )
    ...
```

Alternatively, we could use a more complicated pipeline that includes dataset aggregation
([DAgger](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~sross1/publications/Ross-AIStats11-NoRegret.pdf)). This requires the existence of an
expert (implemented in the task definition) that provides optimal actions to agents. We have implemented 
such a pipeline by extending the above configuration as follows

```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(experiments.ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig):
    ...
    SENSORS = [
        RGBSensorThor(
            {
                "height": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "width": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "use_resnet_normalization": True,
            }
        ),
        GoalObjectTypeThorSensor({"object_types": OBJECT_TYPES}),
        ExpertActionSensor({"nactions": 6}),
    ]
    ...
    @classmethod
    def training_pipeline(cls, **kwargs):
        dagger_steps = int(3e4)
        ppo_steps = int(3e4)
        lr = 2.5e-4
        num_mini_batch = 6 if not torch.cuda.is_available() else 30
        update_repeats = 3
        num_steps = 128
        log_interval = cls.MAX_STEPS * 10  # Log every 10 max length tasks
        save_interval = 10000  # Save every 10000 steps (approximately)
        gamma = 0.99
        use_gae = True
        gae_lambda = 1.0
        max_grad_norm = 0.5
        return TrainingPipeline(
            save_interval=save_interval,
            log_interval=log_interval,
            optimizer=Builder(optim.Adam, dict(lr=lr)),
            num_mini_batch=num_mini_batch,
            update_repeats=update_repeats,
            num_steps=num_steps,
            named_losses={
                "imitation_loss": Builder(Imitation,),
                "ppo_loss": Builder(PPO, default=PPOConfig,),
            },
            gamma=gamma,
            use_gae=use_gae,
            gae_lambda=gae_lambda,
            max_grad_norm=max_grad_norm,
            pipeline_stages=[
                PipelineStage(
                    loss_names=["imitation_loss"],
                    teacher_forcing=LinearDecay(
                        startp=1.0, endp=0.0, steps=dagger_steps,
                    ),
                    end_criterion=dagger_steps,
                ),
                PipelineStage(
                    loss_names=["ppo_loss", "imitation_loss"], end_criterion=ppo_steps
                ),
            ],
        )
``` 

## Machine configuration

In `machine_params` we define machine configuration parameters that will be used for training, validation and test:
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    @classmethod
    def machine_params(cls, mode="train", **kwargs):
        if mode == "train":
            nprocesses = 6 if not torch.cuda.is_available() else 30
            gpu_ids = [] if not torch.cuda.is_available() else [0]
        elif mode == "valid":
            nprocesses = 0
            gpu_ids = [] if not torch.cuda.is_available() else [1]
        elif mode == "test":
            nprocesses = 1
            gpu_ids = [] if not torch.cuda.is_available() else [0]
        else:
            raise NotImplementedError("mode must be 'train', 'valid', or 'test'.")

        return {"nprocesses": nprocesses, "gpu_ids": gpu_ids}
    ...
```
In the above we use the availability of cuda (`torch.cuda.is_available()`) to determine whether
we should use parameters appropriate for local machines or for a server. We might optionally add a list of
`sampler_devices` to potentially assign devices not used for running our agent to task sampling workers.

## Task sampling

The above has defined the model we'd like to use, the types of losses we wish to use during training,
and the machine specific parameters that should be used during training. Critically we have not yet
defined which task we wish to train our agent to complete. This is done by implementing the 
`ExperimentConfig.make_sampler_fn` function
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    @staticmethod
    def make_sampler_fn(**kwargs) -> rl_base.task.TaskSampler:
        return rl_ai2thor.object_nav.task_samplers.ObjectNavTaskSampler(**kwargs)
    ...
```
Now, before training starts, our trainer will know to generate a collection of task
samplers using `make_sampler_fn` for training (and possibly validation or testing).
The `kwargs` parameters used in the above function call can be different for each
training process, we implement such differences using the
`ExperimentConfig.train_task_sampler_args` function
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    def train_task_sampler_args(
        self,
        process_ind: int,
        total_processes: int,
        devices: typing.Optional[typing.List[int]] = None,
        seeds: typing.Optional[typing.List[int]] = None,
        deterministic_cudnn: bool = False,
    ) -> typing.Dict[str, typing.Any]:
        res = self._get_sampler_args_for_scene_split(
            self.TRAIN_SCENES,
            process_ind,
            total_processes,
            seeds=seeds,
            deterministic_cudnn=deterministic_cudnn,
        )
        res["scene_period"] = self.SCENE_PERIOD
        res["env_args"]["x_display"] = "0.%d" % devices[0] if len(devices) > 0 else None
        return res
    ...
```
Now training process `i` out of `n` total processes will be instantiated with the parameters
`ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig.train_task_sampler_args(i, n, ...)`. Similar functions
 (`valid_task_sampler_args` and `test_task_sampler_args`) exist for generating validation
 and test parameters. Note also that with this function we can assign devices to run
 our environment for each worker. See the documentation of `ExperimentConfig` for more information.

Commit message:

Relative imports in experiment config

docs/overview/experiment.md, after:

# Experiment specification

Let's look at an example experiment configuration for an object navigation example with an actor-critic agent observing
RGB images from the environment, target object classes from the task and expert actions.

The interface to be implemented by the experiment specification is defined in
[rl_base.experiment_config](/api/rl_base/experiment_config#experimentconfig). The first method to implement is `tag`,
which provides a string identifying the experiment:
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    @classmethod
    def tag(cls):
        return "ObjectNavThorPPO"
    ...
```

## Model creation

Next, `create_model` will be used to instantiate
[object navigation baseline actor-critic models](/api/models/object_nav_models#ObjectNavBaselineActorCritic):
```python
class ObjectNavThorExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    SCREEN_SIZE = 224
    ...
    OBJECT_TYPES = sorted(["Tomato"])
    ...

    SENSORS = [
        rl_ai2thor.ai2thor_sensors.RGBSensorThor(
            {
                "height": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "width": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "use_resnet_normalization": True,
            }
        ),
        rl_ai2thor.ai2thor_sensors.GoalObjectTypeThorSensor(
            {"object_types": OBJECT_TYPES}
        ),
    ]
    
    @classmethod
    def create_model(cls, **kwargs) -> torch.nn.Module:
        return models.object_nav_models.ObjectNavBaselineActorCritic(
            action_space=gym.spaces.Discrete(
                len(rl_ai2thor.object_nav.tasks.ObjectNavTask.action_names())
            ),
            observation_space=rl_base.sensor.SensorSuite(
                cls.SENSORS
            ).observation_spaces,
            goal_sensor_uuid="goal_object_type_ind",
            hidden_size=512,
            object_type_embedding_dim=8,
        )
    ...
```

## Training pipeline

In this section we use [Builder](/api/utils/experiment_utils#builder) objects, which allow us to defer the instantiation
of objects of the class passed as their first argument while allowing passing additional keyword arguments to their
initializers. 

We can implement a training pipeline which trains with a single stage using PPO:
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    @classmethod
    def training_pipeline(cls, **kwargs):
        ppo_steps = int(1e6)
        lr = 2.5e-4
        num_mini_batch = 1
        update_repeats = 3
        num_steps = 128
        log_interval = cls.MAX_STEPS * 10  # Log every 10 max length tasks
        save_interval = 10000  # Save every 10000 steps (approximately)
        gamma = 0.99
        use_gae = True
        gae_lambda = 1.0
        max_grad_norm = 0.5
        return utils.experiment_utils.TrainingPipeline(
            named_losses={
                "imitation_loss": utils.experiment_utils.Builder(
                    onpolicy_sync.losses.imitation.Imitation,
                ),
            },
            optimizer=utils.experiment_utils.Builder(
                torch.optim.Adam, dict(lr=lr)
            ),
            save_interval=save_interval,
            log_interval=log_interval,
            num_mini_batch=num_mini_batch,
            update_repeats=update_repeats,
            num_steps=num_steps,
            gamma=gamma,
            use_gae=use_gae,
            gae_lambda=gae_lambda,
            max_grad_norm=max_grad_norm,
            pipeline_stages=[
                utils.experiment_utils.PipelineStage(
                    loss_names=["ppo_loss"],
                    end_criterion=ppo_steps
                ),
            ],
        )
    ...
```

Alternatively, we could use a more complicated pipeline that includes dataset aggregation
([DAgger](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~sross1/publications/Ross-AIStats11-NoRegret.pdf)). This requires the existence of an
expert (implemented in the task definition) that provides optimal actions to agents. We have implemented such a 
pipeline by extending the above configuration as follows

```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(experiments.ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig):
    ...
    SENSORS = [
        RGBSensorThor(
            {
                "height": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "width": SCREEN_SIZE,
                "use_resnet_normalization": True,
            }
        ),
        GoalObjectTypeThorSensor({"object_types": OBJECT_TYPES}),
        ExpertActionSensor({"nactions": 6}),
    ]
    ...
    @classmethod
    def training_pipeline(cls, **kwargs):
        dagger_steps = int(3e4)
        ppo_steps = int(3e4)
        lr = 2.5e-4
        num_mini_batch = 6 if not torch.cuda.is_available() else 30
        update_repeats = 3
        num_steps = 128
        log_interval = cls.MAX_STEPS * 10  # Log every 10 max length tasks
        save_interval = 10000  # Save every 10000 steps (approximately)
        gamma = 0.99
        use_gae = True
        gae_lambda = 1.0
        max_grad_norm = 0.5
        return TrainingPipeline(
            save_interval=save_interval,
            log_interval=log_interval,
            optimizer=Builder(optim.Adam, dict(lr=lr)),
            num_mini_batch=num_mini_batch,
            update_repeats=update_repeats,
            num_steps=num_steps,
            named_losses={
                "imitation_loss": Builder(Imitation,),
                "ppo_loss": Builder(PPO, default=PPOConfig,),
            },
            gamma=gamma,
            use_gae=use_gae,
            gae_lambda=gae_lambda,
            max_grad_norm=max_grad_norm,
            pipeline_stages=[
                PipelineStage(
                    loss_names=["imitation_loss"],
                    teacher_forcing=LinearDecay(
                        startp=1.0, endp=0.0, steps=dagger_steps,
                    ),
                    end_criterion=dagger_steps,
                ),
                PipelineStage(
                    loss_names=["ppo_loss", "imitation_loss"], end_criterion=ppo_steps
                ),
            ],
        )
``` 
Note that, in order for the saved configs in the experiment output folder to be fully usable, we currently need
to import the module with the parent experiment config relative to the current location. 

## Machine configuration

In `machine_params` we define machine configuration parameters that will be used for training, validation and test:
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    @classmethod
    def machine_params(cls, mode="train", **kwargs):
        if mode == "train":
            nprocesses = 6 if not torch.cuda.is_available() else 30
            gpu_ids = [] if not torch.cuda.is_available() else [0]
        elif mode == "valid":
            nprocesses = 0
            gpu_ids = [] if not torch.cuda.is_available() else [1]
        elif mode == "test":
            nprocesses = 1
            gpu_ids = [] if not torch.cuda.is_available() else [0]
        else:
            raise NotImplementedError("mode must be 'train', 'valid', or 'test'.")

        return {"nprocesses": nprocesses, "gpu_ids": gpu_ids}
    ...
```
In the above we use the availability of cuda (`torch.cuda.is_available()`) to determine whether
we should use parameters appropriate for local machines or for a server. We might optionally add a list of
`sampler_devices` to potentially assign devices not used for running our agent to task sampling workers.

## Task sampling

The above has defined the model we'd like to use, the types of losses we wish to use during training,
and the machine specific parameters that should be used during training. Critically we have not yet
defined which task we wish to train our agent to complete. This is done by implementing the 
`ExperimentConfig.make_sampler_fn` function
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(rl_base.experiment_config.ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    @staticmethod
    def make_sampler_fn(**kwargs) -> rl_base.task.TaskSampler:
        return rl_ai2thor.object_nav.task_samplers.ObjectNavTaskSampler(**kwargs)
    ...
```
Now, before training starts, our trainer will know to generate a collection of task
samplers using `make_sampler_fn` for training (and possibly validation or testing).
The `kwargs` parameters used in the above function call can be different for each
training process, we implement such differences using the
`ExperimentConfig.train_task_sampler_args` function
```python
class ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig(ExperimentConfig):
    ...
    def train_task_sampler_args(
        self,
        process_ind: int,
        total_processes: int,
        devices: typing.Optional[typing.List[int]] = None,
        seeds: typing.Optional[typing.List[int]] = None,
        deterministic_cudnn: bool = False,
    ) -> typing.Dict[str, typing.Any]:
        res = self._get_sampler_args_for_scene_split(
            self.TRAIN_SCENES,
            process_ind,
            total_processes,
            seeds=seeds,
            deterministic_cudnn=deterministic_cudnn,
        )
        res["scene_period"] = self.SCENE_PERIOD
        res["env_args"]["x_display"] = "0.%d" % devices[0] if len(devices) > 0 else None
        return res
    ...
```
Now training process `i` out of `n` total processes will be instantiated with the parameters
`ObjectNavThorPPOExperimentConfig.train_task_sampler_args(i, n, ...)`. Similar functions
 (`valid_task_sampler_args` and `test_task_sampler_args`) exist for generating validation
 and test parameters. Note also that with this function we can assign devices to run
 our environment for each worker. See the documentation of `ExperimentConfig` for more information.
